MONIKA AKBAR Assistant Professor, Computer Science - Cyber-Share Dr. Monika Akbar is a computer scientist, Research Assistant Professor, and Assistant Director at Cyber-Share. Her research interests include data modeling and representation, digital libraries, online communities, data mining, and CS education. Over the years, she has worked on digital library innovations to assist computing educators. Incorporating online communities into digital libraries and engaging users in participating in those communities were two of the foci of her PhD. Her current research looks at developing a robust theoretical framework for data and information management systems that supports data analytics. She is an active member of associations that work on broadening participation and increasing the number of female students in Computing. KEYWORDS CS education Data analytics Data and information management information Security Smart transportation UTEP STRATEGIC AREAS Education for the 21st Century Demographic Cross-cutting: Cyberinfrastructure and Collaborative Environments Cross-cutting: Emerging Technologies: Information Technology, Biotechnology & Nanotechnology Other
akbar
Dr. Badreddin is the author of Susereum. He is a researcher in the field of Sustainable Software Engineering. The research is focused on exploring novel methods to reducing software complexity often by innovating novel design approaches. Our research team evaluates existing design languages and investigates how they affect design activities for medium and large software systems. Those investigations drive the exploration for novel approaches for software design. Many of the research findings have made its way into prominent software design tools including Papyrus, WebSphere Monitor, and others. Model Driven Software Engineering  Various flavors of modeling and levels of formalisms for Designs Reducing complexity in large software systems can have broad implications well beyond the software engineering field. Our research team applies many of the research findings to Healthcare Informatic challenges in hospitals in the U.S and Canada. We have active collaborations with hospitals in North America, focusing on exploring techniques for compliance and clinical pathway management. Dr. Badreddin’s main research areas include Cyber-Physical Systems Design and Testing, Model-Driven Engineering, and Model-Driven Systems Engineering. His collaborators include NASA Jet Propulsion Lab, French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission, and IBM. His recent work is related to testing untestable systems. Untestable systems are those that cannot be tested due to the cost of performing tests (i.e collision-avoidance systems), or due to difficulties in sitting the environment for test (i.e deep ocean explorers).
badreddin
My main interests lie in decision making under uncertainty and optimization. Over the years, my projects, although always related to decision under uncertainty and optimization, have led me to explore varied domains and applications. The beauty of Computer Science is that it applies to many areas, … all? As a result, I always seek collaborations across disciplines. My current work is in:  Decision making for large dynamical systems under uncertainty, using reduced-order modeling of large computationally-intensive problems Global optimization and constraint solving: symbolic-numeric algorithms aiming at enhancing the solving process, flexible/soft constraints Combinatorial testing: t-wise covering test suites  Other (related) research interests: Interval computations: more accurate evaluation of interval functions, handling uncertainty Multi-criteria decision making, and decision under uncertainty, combination with interval computations Applications of constraints and optimization: e.g., bio-medical engineering, computer security, software engineering Other current interests include (but are not limited to): non-square matrices, tensors, large-scale systems, and applications to: program verification, fuzzy measure extraction. Some of my on-going research is as follows: Prediction of the future behavior of dynamical systems using Reduced-Order Modeling and Interval Computations, presentation at the Journées de l’Optimisation, in Montreal, Canada, May 7-9, 2018. Reduced-order modeling for solving large dynamic systems with uncertainty: a project of the Army High-Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC), Stanford University. Nov. 28 Presentation, March 7 Presentation Constraint solving and Optimization: CAREER project (2010-2016) funded by the National Science Foundation Combinatorial testing: t-wise covering test suites  Some of my previously funded projects are: 1/ reduced-order modeling of large computationally-intensive problems (a project of Stanford’s Army High-Performance Computing Research Center — funded by ARL — 04/2013-12/2017) 2/ global optimization and constraint solving (NSF CAREER project — 01/2009-12/2016) 3/ prediction of experts’ decisions using Choquet integral and optimization, as well as argumentation networks and soft constraints (with Stefano Bistarelli, Uni. Perugia, Italy — funded by AAAS) 4/ a Virtual GeoCaching Game (funded by Raytheon)
ceberio 
Professor Cheon's main research area is formal aspects of software development: requirement, design, programming, testing, verification and validation. Modern software development requires the design and analysis of a number of different artifacts. Formal techniques and methods allow the mathematically precise formulation of these artifacts. His main research goal is to enable a wider use of formal techniques and methods. This involves developing theories and techniques usable by software developers and programmers with minimal mathematical background. He calls his research field "operational formal methods"---formal methods that are practical and applicable to daily software development and programming work. These include, but are not limited to, specification languages, verification and validation techniques, programming languages, programming methodologies, and support tools. Dr. Cheon participated and worked in the design and implementation of several formal specification languages and their support tools, including Larch/C++, Larch/Smalltalk, Java Modeling Language (JML), and CleanJava.Dr. Cheon earned his BS from Korea University, and his masters and doctoral degrees from Iowa State University. He spent eight years on the research staff of the Computer and Software Technology Laboratory at the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI), Taejon, South Korea.
cheon
Eric Freudenthal Associate Professor University of Texas at El Paso Computer Science Department Office: Room 3.0424, Chemistry and Computer Science building (at the corner of Hawthorne Street and Rim Road) shared fax: 915/747-5030 tethered: 915/747-6954 efreudenthal @ utep.edu wireless: 915/317-6246 Links: Office hours/calendar, Home page, CV, Short: bio, Research interests, Selected publications, Community service, Photos, Courses, , A few words about UTEP, freudenthal.net Office Hours and Appointments My "drop in" office hours during the spring and fall semesters are on Mondays & Thursdays 2-3 PM However, I'll depart after 15 minutes if nobody is there (and nobody is expected).  Even if you want to meet with me during office hours, I encourage you to send me an email indicating day, time, and reason for the appointment.  If those times are inconvenient, please follow the directions below to request an appointment at another time: I teach on Mondays and Wednesdays until 3. If practical, please make special requests to meet with me on other days.  Search my online calendar for mutually convenient times during normal business hours.  Please indicate your motivation for scheduling this meeting, and (if you're comfortable), a phone number I can use to reach you should I be delayed or need to negotiate a different meeting time.  Research I have active research efforts in both computer systems and STEM education.  Systems Research I lead the Robust Autonomic Systems Group. Present thrusts are: Hardware-software energy-senstivie co-design of high performance systems.  Strategies for improving caches and memory allocation in garbage-collected mobile systems.  I tend to focus on the design of robust but simple protocols that effectively respond to system dynamism. Contributions include scalable coordination primitives for parallel computers and techniques for implementing security, indexing, load-balancing, and locality-aware redirection for coalitions of self-managed autonomous (peer-to-peer) systems. I am one of the creators of Coral-CDN, a locality aware, scalable, and self-managed content distribution network.  Education Research I lead the iMPaCT-STEM educational research project (http://impact-stem.org). This multi-disciplinary effort has developed a family of learning activities that leverage graphical programming to engage high school and college students in the examination of principles underlying algebra, calculus, and Newtonian mechanics.  With support from NSF, DHS, TI, and Microsoft, we are developing "iMPaCT" (Media Propelled Computational Thinking) learning modules that quickly (generally in less than an hour) introduce students to programming and engage them in the exploration of computer graphics and simulations of kinematics. The intended learning outcomes include A holistic understanding of programming and its relationship to math, science, and engineering.  Deepened conceptual understandings of the mathematical foundations of calculus, high school algebra, kinematics, and electrodynamics.  Most attendees in iMPaCT activities are highly engaged - independent of gender, ethnicity, and intended academic major. These findings suggest that many more students could be attracted to study science and engineering through problem solving activities that build conceptual understandings underlying math and physics. iMPaCT has spawned several sub-projects iMPaCT-CS0: an introduction to computing suitable for integration with an entering students program.  iMPaCT-CS1: a first semester course in programming that begins with graphical programming in Jython and transitions to Java that has learning outcomes equivalent to a traditional Java-based CS-1 course.  iMPaCT-STEM: A family of programming activities designed for integration into otherwise unmodified math and science classes that reinforce and contextualize those courses primary learning outcomes while inadvertantly introducing all to the foundational ideas of programming.  Visit our web http://www.impact-stem.org.  Prior Efforts CoralCDN -- autonomic content distribution I collaborated with Michael Freedman and David Mazieres in the development of CoralCDN, a locality-sensitive self-organizing content dissemination network. Coral's indices are stored in a hierarchy of interleaved distributed hash tables that share the same name space. Constituent hash tables represent nested ranges of network locality constraints, and all nodes are members of a global hash table with no locality constraints. A single Coral node represents the same hash bucket in multiple hash tables, and searches prefer to search tables with better network connectivity, and only revert to tables with inferior connectivity when necessary.  Echoing characteristics of the Ultracomputer's combining network, Coral dynamically replicates data near to clients, thereby minimizing hot-spot congestion. While Coral is not robust to security challenges, it is expected to to provide high performance even in the presence of partial system failure.  More information on this project is available on the Coral home page.  Security Infrastructure for Decentralized Systems I led an effort of the NYU Parallel and Distributed Systems Group (PDSG) to investigate the security needs of systems deployed into dynamic environments that span a large number of administrative domains.  The deployment of and communication among dynamically deployed software agents requires the establishment of sustained authorizing trust relationships between agents and systems that host them, and other agents with whom they interact. Existing component-based frameworks (e.g. J2EE and grid) do not offer appropriate security guarantees for coalition systems that span multiple mutually-distrustful administrative domains. In order to address these challenges, we developed a deployment substrate for mobile agents called DisCo and a decentralized role-based access control system called dRBAC. I am also investigating quantified trust management, that includes mechanisms for trust aggregation that may increase the expressiveness and scalability of access control systems.  An extended summary of this work is available online at http://rlab.cs.utep.edu/~freudent/pdsg.html.  Coordination for Shared Memory Systems As a graduate student supervised by Allan Gottlieb, I investigated support for scalable inter-process coordination on shared-memory MIMD systems. My contributions include detection and analysis of problems in architectures that implmement hardware combining. I propose design modifications that significantly mitigate these effects. I also have contributed centralized algorithms that have lower synchronization latency than those previously known (and superior to commonly used alternatives).  Hot spot contention in combining networks investigated in my research has analogues in other networked systems. I anticipate that variants of the techniques I propose to mitigate the impact of hot spot congestion on both hot spot and non hot spot traffic can be generalized to other networked systems.  A more complete summary of my dissertation reseaerch is available online: http://rlab.cs.utep.edu/~freudent/thesisSummary.html. Additional details are available in Technical Report TR2003-849. This report and my full dissertation can be downloaded from the NYU Computer Science Department web site.  Image Recognition I investigated automatic target recognition in imagery collected using synthetic aperture radar, participating in several research projects associated with DARPA's MSTAR model-based vision research program and the AFRL's Model Based Vision Lab. I collaborated with Lockheed-Martin, Veridian-Erim, Diamondback Vision, and the University of Cincinatti on the MEP4 project that investigates identification of partially occluded targets. I also collaborated with Alphatech Corporation and SAIC to investigate the inherent complexity of the SAR ATR problem. This project was awarded a second phase STTR.  In collaboration with Ben Goldberg and Davi Geiger, I organized the NYU Recognition Lab, computational resource available for research in computer vision as applied to automatic target recognition. The equipment for this lab was purchased under a grant from the AFOSR's DURIP program. The DARPA-sponsored MSTAR effort engaged approximately one hundred scientists at ten institutions in the construction of an experimental model-based system to detect and identify targets in SAR (synthetic aperture RADAR) imagery. My research contributions included algorithms for efficient registration and object identification, the development of a parallelized hypothesis evaluation and refinement executive, and optimizing template selection algorithms.
freudenthal
Olac L. Fuentes - Research Interests I am interested in Machine Learning and its applications to Computer Vision, Bioinformatics, Scientific Data Analysis, Robotics, and Natural Language Processing.  I lead the Vision and Learning Laboratory (VL-Lab) at UTEP and I am also affiliated with the Interactive Systems Group (ISG).  Publications Nigel Ward, Diego Aguirre, Gerardo Cervantes and Olac Fuentes, Turn-taking Predictions Across Languages and Genres Using an LSTM Recurrent Neural Network . SLT 2018: IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop, Athens, Greece, December 2018.  Afshin Gholamy, Justin Parra, Vladik Kreinovich, Olac Fuentes, and Elizabeth Anthony, How to Best Apply Deep Neural Networks in Geosciences: Towards Optimal 'Averaging' in Dropout Training. In: Junzo Watada, Shing Chieng Tan, Pandian Vasant, Eswaran Padmanabhan, and Lakhmi C. Jain (eds.), Smart Unconventional Modelling, Simulation and Optimization for Geosciences and Petroleum Engineering, Springer Verlag.  Anthony Ortiz, Olac Fuentes, Dalton Rosario and Christopher Kiekintveld On the Defense Against Adversarial Examples Beyond the Visible Spectrum. IEEE MILCOMM 2018, Los Angeles, CA, October 2018.  Dalton Rosario, Anthony Ortiz, and Olac Fuentes, 3D Terrain Segmentation in the SWIR Spectrum. IEEE WHISPERS, Amsterdam, Netherlands, September 2018.  Anthony Ortiz, Alonso Granados, Olac Fuentes, Christopher Kiekintveld, Dalton Rosario, and Zachary Bell, Integrated Learning and Feature Selection for Deep Neural Networks in Multispectral Images. 14th IEEE Workshop on Perception Beyond the Visible Spectrum, held in conjunction with Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR 2018), Salt Lake City, Utah, June 2018.  Arshad M. Khan, Jose G Perez, Claire E. Wells, and Olac Fuentes, Computer vision evidence supporting craniometric alignment of rat brain atlases to streamline expert-guided, first-order migration of hypothalamic spatial datasets. Frontiers in Systems Neuroscience. May 2018.  Olac Fuentes, Justin Parra, Elizabeth Anthony, and Vladik Kreinovich, Why Rectified Linear Neurons Are Efficient: A Possible Theoretical Explanation, In: Olga Kosheleva, Sergey Shary, Gang Xiang, and Roman Zapatrin (eds.), Beyond Traditional Probabilistic Data Processing Techniques: Interval, Fuzzy, etc. Methods and Their Applications, Springer, Cham, Switzerland, 2018.  Nigel G. Ward, Jason C. Carlson, and Olac Fuentes. Inferring Stance in News Broadcasts from Prosodic-Feature Configurations. Computer Speech and Language, Vol. 50, 2018.  Chitta Baral, Olac Fuentes, and Vladik Kreinovich, Why Deep Neural Networks: A Possible Theoretical Explanation, In: Martine Ceberio and Vladik Kreinovich (eds.), Constraint Programming and Decision Making: Theory and Applications, Springer Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2018.  Anh H. Ly, Francisco Zapata, Olac Fuentes, and Vladik Kreinovich, Probabilistic Graphical Models Follow Directly from Maximum Entropy. Thai Journal of Mathematics Vol 1(6), 2017.  Justin Parra, Olac Fuentes, Elizabeth Anthony, and Vladik Kreinovich. Use of Machine Learning to Analyze and - Hopefully - Predict Volcano Activity. Acta Polytechnica Hungarica, Vol. 14(3), 2017.  Justin Parra, Olac Fuentes, Elizabeth Anthony, and Vladik Kreinovich. Prediction of Volcanic Eruptions as a Case Study of Predicting Rare Events in Chaotic Systems with Delay. IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Banff, Canada, October 2017.  Nigel G. Ward, Jason C. Carlson, Olac Fuentes, Diego Castan, Elizabeth E. Shriberg, and Andreas Tsiartas. Inferring Stance from Prosody. Interspeech 2017, Stockholm, Sweeden, August 2017.  Anthony Ortiz, Dalton Rosario, Olac Fuentes, and Blair Simon. Image-based 3D Model and Hyperspectral Data Fusion for Improved Scene understanding. IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, Fort Worth, Texas, USA, July 2017.  Debra P. C. Peters, Kris M. Havstad, Judy Cushing, Craig Tweedie, Olac Fuentes, and Natalia Villanueva-Rosales. Harnessing the power of big data: infusing the scientific method with machine learning to transform ecology. ECOSPHERE, 5(6), June 2014.  Geovany Ramirez, Olac Fuentes, Stephen L. Crites Jr., Maria Jimenez, and Juanita Ordonez. Color analysis of facial skin: Detection of emotional state. In Workshop on Computational Models for Social Interactions and Behavior (CMSI): Scientific Grounding, Sensing and Applications, Held in conjunction with Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR 2014), Columbus, Ohio, June 2014.  Jonathan Quijas and Olac Fuentes. Removing JPEG Blocking Artifacts Using Machine Learning. In 2014 Southwest Symposium on Image Analysis and Interpretation, San Diego, CA, April 2014.  Vladik Kreinovich and Olac Fuentes. High-concentration chemical computing techniques for solving hard-to-solve problems, and their relation to numerical optimization, neural computing, reasoning under uncertainty, and freedom of choice. In Evgeny Katz, editor, Molecular and Supramolecular Information Processing - From Molecular Switches to Logic Systems, pages 210-235. Wiley-VCH, 2012.  Federico Ramirez, Olac Fuentes, Rodrigo Romero, and Aaron Velasco. A Hybrid Algorithm for Crustal Velocity Modeling. In 11th Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, San Luis Potosi, SLP, Mexico, October 27 - November 4, 2012 Geovany Ramirez and Olac Fuentes. Street detection with asymmetric Haar features. In 17th Iberoamerican Congress on Pattern Recognition, Buenos Aires, Argentina, September 2012.  Murad Alaqtash, Thompson Sarkodie-Gyan, Huiying Yu, Olac Fuentes, Richard Brower, and Amr Abdelgawad, Automatic Classification of Pathological Gait Patterns using Ground Reaction Forces and Machine Learning Algorithms. 33rd Annual International Conference of the IEEE EMBS Boston, Massachusetts USA, August 30 - September 3, 2011.  Steven Gutstein, Olac Fuentes, and Eric Freudenthal. Latent learning - what your net also learned. Proceedings of the 2011 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), San Jose, CA, August 2011.  Jorge de la Calleja, Antonio Benitez, Ma Auxilio Medina, and Olac Fuentes Machine learning from imbalanced data sets for astronomical object classification. Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Soft Computing and Pattern Recognition (SoCPaR), Dalian, China, October 14-16, 2011.  Gesuri Ramiez, Olac Fuentes, and Craig E. Tweedie. Assessing data quality in a sensor network for environmental monitoring., Proceedings of the 2011 Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society (NAFIPS 2011), El Paso, TX, March 2011.  Joshua Osbeck, Shamsnaz Virani, Olac Fuentes, and Patricia Roden. Investigation of automatic prediction of software quality. Proceedings of the 2011 Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society (NAFIPS 2011), El Paso, TX, March 2011.  Juan Carlos Gomez and Olac Fuentes. Using evolution strategies to perform stellar population synthesis for galaxy spectra from SDSS. International Journal of Applied Evolutionary Computation, 1(4), 2010.  Nigel Ward, Olac Fuentes, and Alejandro Vega. Dialog prediction for a general model of turn-taking. Proceedings the 2010 International Conference on Spoken Language Processing (Interspeech 2010), Makuhari, Japan, September 2010.  Steven Gutstein, Olac Fuentes and Eric Freudenthal, Latent Learning in Deep Neural Nets, Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN) , Barcelona, Spain, July 2010.  Jun Zheng, Geovany A. Ramirez, and Olac Fuentes, Face Detection in Low-resolution Color Images , 7th International Conference on Image Analysis and Recognition (ICIAR), Povoa de Varzim, Portugal, June 2010.  Jun Zheng, Olac Fuentes, Ming-Ying Leung, and Elais Jackson Mammogram Compression Using Super-Resolution , International Workshop on Digital Mammography, Girona, Spain, June 2010.  Jun Zheng, Olac Fuentes, and Ming-Ying Leung Super-Resolution of Mammograms , Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Computational Intelligence in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (CIBCB 2010), Montreal, Canada, May 2010.  Jorge De la Calleja,Gladis Huerta, Olac Fuentes, Antonio Benitez, Eduardo Lopez Dominguez, and Ma Auxilio Medina. The imbalanced problem in morphological galaxy classification. In Progress in Pattern Recognition, Image Analysis, Computer Vision, and Applications, pp. 533-540. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2010.  Luis Malagón-Borja and Olac Fuentes, Object Detection using Image Reconstruction with PCA, Image and Vision Computing, Volume 27(1-2), pp 2-9, January 2009.  Jun Zheng and Olac Fuentes, A Stochastic Method for Face Image Super-Resolution , Proceedings of 5th International Symposium on Visual Computing (ISVC09), Las Vegas, Nevada, Nov 30 - Dec 2, 2009.  Jorge de la Calleja, Olac Fuentes, Jesus Gonzalez and Rita M. Aceves-Perez, A Learning Method for Imbalanced Data Sets, International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Information Retrieval, Madeira, Portugal, October 2009.  Manali Chakraborty and Olac Fuentes, Real-time Image-Based Motion Detection Using Color and Structure, International Conference on Image Analysis and Recognition (ICIAR), Halifax, CA, July 2009.  Trilce Estrada, Olac Fuentes and Michela Taufer, A Distributed Evolutionary Method to Design Scheduling Policies for Volunteer Computing, ACM SIGMETRICS PER (Performance Evaluation Review), Volume 36(3), December 2008.  Steven Gutstein, Olac Fuentes and Eric Freudenthal, Knowledge Transfer in Deep Convolutional Neural Nets , International Journal on Artificial Intelligence Tools (IJAIT), Volume 17, Number 3, pp. 555-567, June 2008.  Trilce Estrada, Olac Fuentes and Michela Taufer, A Distributed Evolutionary Method to Design Scheduling Policies for Volunteer Computing, Proceedings of Computing Frontiers 2008, Ischia, Italy, May 2008.  Jorge de la Calleja, Olac Fuentes and Jesús González, Selecting minority examples from misclassified data for over-sampling, Proceedings of FLAIRS-08 Conference, Coconut Grove, Florida, May 2008.  Steven Gutstein, Olac Fuentes and Eric Freudenthal, The Utility of Knowledge Transfer for Noisy Data, Proceedings of FLAIRS-08 Conference, Coconut Grove, Florida, May 2008.  Geovany A. Ramírez and Olac Fuentes, Multi-pose Face Detection with Asymmetric Haar Features, 2008 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), Copper Mountain, Colorado, January 2008.  Juan Carlos Gómez and Olac Fuentes, Using Evolution Strategies for Automatic Extraction of Parameters for Stellar Population Synthesis of Galaxy Spectra from SDSS, 2007 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, Singapore, September 2007.  Luis David López and Olac Fuentes, Color-Based Road Sign Detection and Tracking, International Conference on Image Analysis and Recognition (ICIAR), Montreal, CA, August 2007.  Juan Carlos Gómez and Olac Fuentes, A Hybrid Algorithm Based on Evolution Strategies and Instance-Based Learning Applied to Two-dimensional Fitting of Brightness Profiles in Galaxy Images, International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Mining (MLDM 2007), Leipzig, Germany, July 2007.  Jorge de la Calleja and Olac Fuentes, Learning from Imbalanced Datasets using a Distance-based Over-sampling Method, International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Mining (MLDM 2007), Leipzig, Germany, July 2007.  Juan Carlos Gómez and Olac Fuentes, Using Evolution Strategies for Automatic Extraction of Parameters for Stellar Population Synthesis of Galaxy Spectra from SDSS, Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference (GECCO 2007), London, England, July 2007 (Poster presentation).  Steven Gutstein, Olac Fuentes and Eric Freudenthal, Knowledge Transfer in Deep Convolutional Neural Nets, Proceedings of FLAIRS-07 Conference, Key West, Florida, May 2007.  Jorge de la Calleja and Olac Fuentes, A Distance-based Over-sampling Method for Dealing with Imbalanced Data Sets, Proceedings of FLAIRS-07 Conference, Key West, Florida, May 2007 (Poster presentation).  Olac Fuentes, David Vera and Thamar Solorio, A Filter-Based Approach to Detect End-of-Utterances from Prosody in Dialog Systems, Proceedings of the The Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL-HLT 2007), Rochester, NY, April 2007.  Jorge de la Calleja and Olac Fuentes, Automated Star/Galaxy Discrimination in Multispectral Wide-Field Images, Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Computer Vision Theory and Applications (VISAPP), Barcelona, Spain, March 2007.  Juan Carlos Gómez and Olac Fuentes, Using a Novel Hybrid Algorithm for Two-Dimensional Model of Brightness Profiles in Elliptical and Spiral Galaxy Images , Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems XV, San Lorenzo de El Escorial, Spain, 2006.  Thamar Solorio, Olac Fuentes, Nigel Ward and Yaffa Al Bayyari, Prosodic Feature Generation for Back-channel Prediction, Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Spoken Language Processing (Interspeech 2006), Pittsburgh, PA, September 2006.  Juan Carlos Gómez and Olac Fuentes, Extracting Parameters for Stellar Populations Synthesis from SDSS Galaxy Spectra using Evolution Strategies, The Virtual Observatory in Action: New Science, New Technology, and Next Generation Facilities, 26th meeting of the IAU, Special Session 3, Prague, Czech Republic, August, 2006.  H. Jair Escalante and Olac Fuentes, Analysis of Galactic Spectra Using Noise-Aware Learning Algorithms, Proceedings of FLAIRS-06 Conference, Melbourne Beach, Florida, May 2006.  Jorge de la Calleja and Olac Fuentes, Automated Classification of Astronomical Objects in Multi-spectral Wide-Field Images, Proceedings of FLAIRS-06 Conference, Melbourne Beach, Florida, May 2006. (Received best poster award).  Thamar Solorio, Olac Fuentes, Roberto Terlevich and Elena Terlevich, An Active Instance-Based Machine Learning Method for Stellar Population Studies, Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, Vol. 363(2), October 2005.  José Martínez and Olac Fuentes, Using C4.5 as a variable Selection Criterion in Classification Tasks, IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Soft-Computing, Benidorm, Spain, September 2005.  Juan Carlos Gómez, Olac Fuentes and Ivanio Puerari, Two-Dimensional Fitting of Brightness Profiles in Galaxy Images with a Hybrid Algorithm, Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Knowledge-Based Intelligent Information & Engineering Systems (KES), Melbourne Australia, September 2005. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 3682.  Trilce Estrada-Piedra and Olac Fuentes, Identification of Stellar Populations in Galactic Spectra using the Hierarchical Decision Ensemble, Proceedings of the 18th International FLAIRS Conference, Clearwater Beach, Florida, May 2005.  Luis Malagón-Borja and Olac Fuentes, An Object Detection System using Image Reconstruction with PCA, Proceedings of the 2nd Canadian Conference on Computer and Robot Vision, Victoria, B.C., Canada, May 2005.  Geovany A. Ramírez and Olac Fuentes, Face Detection using Combinations of Classifiers, Proceedings of the 2nd Canadian Conference on Computer and Robot Vision, Victoria, B.C., Canada, May 2005.  Jorge de la Calleja and Olac Fuentes, Machine Learning and Image Analysis for Morphological Galaxy Classification, Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, Vol. 349, pp. 87-93, 2004.  Olac Fuentes, Thamar Solorio, Roberto Terlevich and Elena Terlevich, Analysis of Galactic Spectra Using Active Instance-Based Learning and Domain Knowledge, Proceedings of IX Iberoamerican Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IBERAMIA), Puebla, Mexico, November 2004. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 3315.  Antonio Salim, Olac Fuentes and Angélica Muñoz, Development of Local Perception-Based Behaviors for a Robotic Soccer Player, Proceedings of IX Iberoamerican Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IBERAMIA), Puebla, Mexico, November 2004. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 3315.  Juan Carlos Gómez, Olac Fuentes, Lia Athannasoula and Albert Bosma, Using Evolution Strategies to Find a Dynamical Model of the M81 Triplet, Proceedings of the Eight International Conference on Knowledge-Based Intelligent Information & Engineering Systems (KES),Wellington, New Zealand, September 2004. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 3215.  Luis Álvarez, Olac Fuentes, and Roberto Terlevich, Extracting Stellar Population Parameters of Galaxies from Photometric Data Using Evolution Strategies and Locally Weighted Linear Regression. Proceedings of the Eight International Conference on Knowledge-Based Intelligent Information & Engineering Systems (KES), Wellington, New Zealand, September 2004. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 3215.  Jorge de la Calleja and Olac Fuentes, Automated Classification of Galaxy Images, Proceedings of the Eight International Conference on Knowledge-Based Intelligent Information & Engineering Systems (KES), Wellington, New Zealand, September 2004. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 3215.  Antonio Salim, Olac Fuentes, and Angélica Muñoz, Development of Local Vision-Based Behaviors for a Robotic Soccer Player, Proceedings Mexican International Conference in Computer Science, Colima, México, Sept. 2004.  Olac Fuentes and Thamar Solorio, An Optimization Algorithm Based on Active and Instance-Based Learning, Proceedings of 2004 Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence (MICAI), Mexico City, Mexico, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2972, April 2004.  Vittorio Zanella and Olac Fuentes, An Approach to Automatic Model-Based Morphing of Face Images in Frontal View, Proceedings of 2004 Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence (MICAI), Mexico City, Mexico, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2972, April 2004.  H. Jair Escalante and Olac Fuentes, Noise Elimination with a Re-Sampling Algorithm, Proceedings of First Iberoamerican Workshop on Machine Learning for Scientific Data Analysis, November 2004, pp.307-316, Puebla, Mexico.  Trilce Estrada-Piedra and Olac Fuentes, Identification of Stellar Populations in Galactic Spectra Using the Hierarchical Decision Ensemble, Proceedings of First Iberoamerican Workshop on Machine Learning for Scientific Data Analysis, November 2004, pp. 371-378, Puebla, Mexico.  Elena Terlevich, Roberto Terlevich, Juan Pablo Torres-Papaqui, Trilce Estrada-Piedra, Olac Fuentes, Thamar Solorio and Sandro Bressan, Computer Science approach to the stellar fabric of violent starforming regions in AGN. The Interplay among Black Holes, Stars and ISM in Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium, No. 222. Edited by T. Storchi-Bergmann, L.C. Ho, and Henrique R. Schmitt. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, p.545-548, 2004.  Carmen Martínez and Olac Fuentes, Face Recognition using Unlabeled Data, Computación y Sistemas - Iberoamerican Journal of Computer Science Research, Vol. 7, No.2, pp 123-129, 2003.  Carmen Martínez and Olac Fuentes, Face Recognition using Unlabeled Data, Proceedings of CIC-2003, Mexico City, Mexico, Oct. 2003.  Vittorio Zanella and Olac Fuentes, Model-Based Automatic Morphing of Face Images in Frontal View, IASTED International Conference on Visualization, Imaging and Image Processing, Benalmádena, Spain, Sept. 2003. pp. 55-60.  Jorge de la Calleja, Olac Fuentes and Aurelio López-López, Content-Based Retrieval of Astronomical Images, IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Applications, Benalmádena, Spain, Sept. 2003.  Olac Fuentes and Thamar Solorio, Interferogram Analysis using Active Instance-Based Learning, IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Applications, Benalmádena, Spain, Sept. 2003.  Geovany Ramírez, Vittorio Zanella and Olac Fuentes, Heuristic-Based Face Detection, IASTED International Conference on Computer Graphics and Imaging, Honolulu, Hawaii, July 2003.  Vittorio Zanella-Palacios and Olac Fuentes, Evolution Strategies for Automatic Image Morphing, Proceedings of International Conference on Computational Intelligence for Modelling Control and Automation, Vienna, Austria, Feb. 2003.  Thamar Solorio, Olac Fuentes, Roberto Terlevich, Elena Terlevich and Alessandro Bressan, Automated determination of stellar population parameters in galaxies using active instance-based learning, Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems XIII, Strasbourg, France, Oct. 2003.  Juan Carlos Gómez, E. Athannasoula and Olac Fuentes, Determination of initial conditions of M81 triplet using Evolution Strategies, Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems XIII, Strasbourg, France, Oct. 2003.  Trilce Estrada-Piedra, Juan P. Torres-Papaqui, Roberto Terlevich, Olac Fuentes and Elena Terlevich, Age determination for the nuclear stellar population of Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) using Locally Weighted Regression (LWR), Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems XIII, Strasbourg, France, Oct. 2003.  Federico Ramírez and Olac Fuentes, A Hybrid Algorithm for Spectral Analysis, Experimental Astronomy, Vol. 14, No. 3, pp. 129-146, 2002.  Sergio Vázquez y Montiel, Juan Jaime Sánchez Escobar, and Olac Fuentes, Obtaining the phase of an interferogram using an evolution strategy, Part I. Applied Optics, Vol. 41, No.17, pp. 3448-3452, June 2002.  Jorge de la Calleja y Olac Fuentes, Image-Based Morphological Classification of Galaxies Using Ensembles of Classifiers, Proceedings of International Computing Congress, Mexico City, Mexico, November 2002.  Thamar Solorio and Olac Fuentes, Improving Classification Accuracy of Large Test Sets Using the Ordered Classification Algorithm, Proceedings of VII I Iberoamerican Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IBERAMIA), Seville, Spain. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2527, pp. 70-79. November 2002.  Federico Ramírez and Olac Fuentes, Spectral Analysis Using Evolution Strategies, IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing, Banff, Alberta, Canada, July 2002.  Thamar Solorio and Olac Fuentes, Taking advantage of unlabeled data with the ordered classification algorithm , IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing, Banff, Alberta, Canada, July 2002.  Federico Ramírez, Olac Fuentes, and Ravi Gulati, Prediction of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters Using Instance-based Machine Learning and Evolutionary Algorithms, Experimental Astronomy, Vol. 12, No. 3. pp. 163-178, 2001.  Olac Fuentes Automatic Determination of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters Using Neural Networks and Instance-Based Learning. Experimental Astronomy, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 21-31, 2001.  Olac Fuentes and Ravi K. Gulati, Predicition of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters from Spectra, Spectral Indices and Spectral Lines Using Machine Learning .Revista Mexicana de Astronomia y Astrofisica, volume 10, March 2001.  Federico Ramírez and Olac Fuentes, Prediction of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters Using Instance-based Machine Learning and Evolutionary Algorithms. Proceedings of the IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Applications (AIA2001), Marbella, Spain, Sept. 2001.  Thamar Solorio and Olac Fuentes, Improving Classifier Accuracy using Unlabeled Data. Proceedings of the IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Applications (AIA2001), Marbella, Spain, Sept. 2001.  Olac Fuentes, Neural Networks and Instance-Based Learning for the Prediction of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters . Proceedings of the IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing (ASC2001), Cancun, Q.R., May 2001.  Olac Fuentes, Finding Errors in Astronomical Catalogs Using Machine Learning, Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems IX, Victoria B.C., Canada, Oct. 2001.  Juan Carlos Gómez, Olac Fuentes, and Ivanio Puerari, Determination of orbital parameters of interacting galaxies using Evolution Strategies, Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems IX, Victoria B.C., Canada, Oct. 2001.  Thamar Solorio and Olac Fuentes, Using unlabeled data to improve the automated prediction of stellar atmospheric parameters, Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems IX, Victoria B.C., Canada, Oct. 2001.  S. Vázquez-Montiel, O. Fuentes, and J. Sánchez-Escobar, Obtaining the phase of a noisy synthetic interferogram using an evolution strategy. Proceedings of OPTILAS 2001, Buenos Aires, Argentina, July 2001.  Olac Fuentes and Ravi K. Gulati, Prediction of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters using Neural Networks and Instance-based Learning. Advances on Artificial Perception and Robotics Workshop. Guanajuato, Mexico, October 2000.  Olac Fuentes and Ravi K. Gulati, Prediction of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters from Spectra, Spectral Indices and Spectral Lines using Machine Learning. Proceedings of the Seventh Texas-Mexico Conference on Astrophysics, Austin, TX., April 2000.  Olac Fuentes and Ravi K. Gulati, Instance-Based Machine Learning Methods for the Prediction of Stellar Atmospheric Parameters. Astronomical Data Analysis Software & Systems IX, Waikoloa, Hawaii, October 1999.  Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, Learning Dextrous Manipulation Strategies for Multifingered Robot Hands Using the Evolution Strategy, .Machine Learning, Vol. 31, 223-237, 1998, Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, Learning Dextrous Manipulation Strategies for Multifingered Robot Hands Using the Evolution Strategy, Autonomous Robots, Vol. 5, 395-405, 1998.  Rajesh P. N. Rao and Olac Fuentes, Hierarchical Learning of Navigational Behaviors in an Autonomous Robot using a Predictive Sparse Distributed Memory, Machine Learning, Vol. 31, 87-113, 1998.  Rajesh P. N. Rao and Olac Fuentes, Hierarchical Learning of Navigational Behaviors in an Autonomous Robot using a Predictive Sparse Distributed Memory, Autonomous Robots, Vol. 5, 297-316, 1998.  Olac Fuentes and Vladik Kreinovich, Towards Intelligent Virtual Environment for Teaching Telemanipulation Operators: Virtual Tool Approach and its Interval-Based Justification, Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Intelligent Virtual Environments, Xalapa, Ver. Mexico, Sept. 1998.  Olac Fuentes, Rajesh P. N. Rao, and Michael Van Wie, Hierarchical Learning of Reactive Behaviors in an Autonomous Mobile Robot. Computación y Sistemas - Iberoamerican Journal of Computer Science Research, Volume 1, number 2, 1997.  Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, Learning Dextrous Manipulation Skills Using the Evolution Strategy. Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Albuquerque, New Mexico, April 1997.  Martin Jägersand, Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, Experimental Evaluation of Uncalibrated Visual Servoing for Precision Manipulation. Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Albuquerque, New Mexico, April 1997.  Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, Learning Dextrous Manipulation Skills Using Multisensory Information. Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE/SICE/RSJ/ International Conference on Multisensor Fusion and Integration for Intelligent Systems, Washington, D.C., December 1996.  Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, Experiments on Dextrous Manipulation without Prior Object Models. Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE International Symposium on Intelligent Control, Dearborn, Michigan, September 1996.  Rajesh P. N. Rao and Olac Fuentes, Learning Navigational Behaviors using a Predictive Sparse Distributed Memory. From Animals to Animats: Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Simulation of Adaptive Behavior, Cape Cod, Massachusetts, September 1996.  Martin Jägersand, Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, Acquiring Visual-Motor Models for Precision Manipulation with Robot Hands. Proceedings of the Fourth European Conference on Computer Vision, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 1065, April 1996.  Olac Fuentes and Randal C. Nelson, The Virtual Tool Approach to Dextrous Telemanipulation. Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, April 1996.  Olac Fuentes, Rajesh P. N. Rao, and Michael Van Wie, Hierarchical Learning of Reactive Behaviors in an Autonomous Mobile Robot. Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, October, 1995.  Rajesh P. N. Rao and Olac Fuentes, Perceptual Homing by an Autonomous Mobile Robot using Sparse Self-Organizing Sensory-Motor Maps. Proceedings of the World Congress on Neural Networks '95, Washington, D.C., July, 1995.  O. Sirisaengtaksin, L. O. Fuentes, and V. Kreinovich, Non-traditional Neural Networks that solve one more intractable problem: propositional satisfiability, Proceedings of the First International Conference on Neural, Parallel, and Scientific Computations, Atlanta, GA, May 1995.  Randal C. Nelson, Martin Jägersand and Olac Fuentes , Virtual Tools: A Framework for Simplifying Sensory-Motor Control in Complex Robotic Systems, Proceedings of the '95 Vision for Robots Workshop, Pittsburgh, PA. August 1995.  Vladik Kreinovich, Chris Quintana and Olac Fuentes, Genetic Algorithms: What Fitness Scaling is Optimal?. Cybernetics and Systems. March 1993.  Vladik Kreinovich, Robert Lea, Olac Fuentes, and Anatole Lockshin, Fuzzy Control is Often Better Than Manual Control of the Very Experts Whose Knowledge It Uses: an Explanation. Proceedings of the 1992 IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence. Arlington, Virginia, November 1992.  V. Kreinovich, C. Quintana, R. Lea, O. Fuentes, S. Kumar, I. Borisheva and L. Reznik, What Non-linearity to Choose? Mathematical Foundations of Fuzzy Control. Proceedings of the 1992 International Fuzzy Systems and Intelligent Control Conference. Louisville, KY, March 1992. pp. 349-412.  Olac Fuentes and Vladik Kreinovich, Simulation of Chemical Kinetics: a Promising Approach to Inference Engines.  Proceedings of the First World Congress on Expert Systems, Orlando, Florida, December 1991.  Student Supervision Ph.D. Theses Geovany Ramirez, Multi-dimensional Emotion Recognition from Geometry and Color Information, Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of Texas at El Paso, May 2014.  Jun Zheng, Stochastic Optimization for Learning-based Super-resolution: Algorithms and Applications, Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of Texas at El Paso, December 2010.  Steven M. Gutstein, Transfer Learning Techniques for Deep Neural Nets,Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of Texas at El Paso, May 2010.  Juan Carlos Gómez-Carranza, Inverse Active machine Learning in Optimization Processes with Application in Astronomy, Ph.D. in Computer Science, INAOE, February 2007.  Vittorio Zanella-Palacios, Automated Morphing of Face Images, Ph.D. in Computer Science, INAOE, January 2005.  José Federico Ramírez-Cruz, Instance and Feature Selection for Instance-Based machine Learning Using Evolutionary Algorithms, Ph.D. in Computer Science, INAOE, October 2003.  Juan Jaime Sánchez-Escobar, Obtención de la Fase de un Interferograma Empleando Estrategias Evolutivas, Ph.D. in Optics, INAOE, November 2002. (Co-supervised with Sergio Vázquez).  M.S. Theses Jonathan Quijas, Analyzing the Effects of Data Augmentation and Free Parameters for Text Classification with Recurrent Convolutional Neural Networks, M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, May 2017.  Emmanuel Tafoya, Using Word Embeddings for Text Classification in Positive and Unlabeled Learning, M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, December 2016.  Luis Ramirez, Single Image Haze Removal, M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, May 2015.  Shajib Khan, Real-time Eye Gaze Correction for Video Conferencing, M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, December 2013.  Tariq Iqbal, A Robust Real-time Eye Tracking and Gaze Estimation System using Particle Filters, M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, August 2012.  Gesuri Ramirez, Assessing Data Quality in a Sensor Network for Environmental Monitoring, M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, November 2011.  Christopher Cuellar, Prediction of Ribonucleic Acid Secondary Structure using a Heuristic Backtracking Search , M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, November 2011.  Manali Chakraborty, Real-time Image-based Motion Detection using Color and Structure, M.S in Computer Science, UTEP, December 2009.  Geovany Ramírez, Detección de Rostros con Aprendizaje Autmático, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, March 2006.  Hugo Jair Escalante, Noise-aware Machine Learning Algorithms, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, February 2006.  Topilzin Flores Lucero, Stereo Vison Using Evolutionary Algorithms, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, February 2005.  José Luis Saul Malagón Borja, Pedestrian Detection using Image Reconstruction with PCA, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, February 2005.  Luis Álvarez Ochoa, Extracción de Parámetros de Poblaciones Estelares de Galaxias a Partir de Datos Fotométricos Usando Estrategias Evolutivas, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, October 2004 (co-supervised with Roberto Terlevich).  Trilce Procyón Estrada Piedra, Identificación Automática de Poblaciones Estelares a Partir de Espectros Galácticos, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, October 2004.  Antonio Salim Maza, Development of Local Vision-based Behaviors for a Robotic Soccer Player, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, September 2004 (co-supervised with Angélica Muñoz).  José Edgar Lara Ramírez, Robot Navigation and Map Construction Using Machine Learning and Probabilistic Models, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, February 2004.  Carmen Carlota Martínez Gil, Face Recognition using Template-based Methods and Unlabeled Data, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, January 2004.  Jorge de la Calleja Mora, Classification of Galaxy Images using Machine Learning and Image Analysis, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, September 2003.  María Teresa Orozco-Aguilera, Creación de Atributos Relevantes para la Predicción de Parámetros de Atmósferas Estelares, M.S. in Astrophysics, INAOE, December 2002.  Oscar Manuel Martínez-Lazalde, Razonamiento con conocimiento incompleto y su aplicación al juego del Dominó, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, December 2002.  Thamar Ivette Solorio Martínez, Using Unlabeled Data to Improve Classifier Accuracy, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, August 2002.  Juan Carlos Gómez-Carranza, Determinación de Parámetros Orbitales de Galaxias Interactuantes Utilizando Estrategias Evolutivas, M.S. in Astrophysics, INAOE, February 2002. (Co-supervised with Ivanio Puerari).  Darío César Peregrina-Albores, Seguimiento de Objetos por Medio de Visión Activa, M.S in Computer Science, INAOE, May 2002. (Co-supervised with Leopoldo Altamirano and Miguel Arias).  B.S. Theses Jorge de la Calleja Mora, B.S in Computer Science, Clasificación Morfológica de Galaxias usando Aprendizaje Automático, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla, August 2002.  Carmen Carlota Martínez Gil, Comparación de Clasificadores Aplicando la Técnica de Eigenfaces y Realizando Ensambles para la Clasificación de Caras, B.S in Computer Science, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla, July 2002.  Back to homepage
fuentes
Ann Quiroz Gates Chair Computer Science, Dept. Computer Science The University of Texas at El Paso Biography: Dr. Ann Q. Gates is Professor and Chair of the Computer Science Department at the University of Texas at El Paso. Her areas of research are in software engineering and cyberinfrastructure with an emphasis on workflows, ontologies, and formal software specification. Gates directs the NSF-funded Cyber-ShARE Center that focuses on developing and sharing resources through cyber-infrastructure to advance research and education in science. She was a founding member of the NSF Advisory Committee for Cyber-infrastructure.  Gates served on the IEEE-Computer Society (IEEE-CS) Board of Governors 2004-2009.  In addition, she chairs the IEEE-CS Educational Activity Board’s Committee of Diversity and External Activities and has established a model for specialized student chapters focused on leadership, entrepreneurship, and professional development.  She is a member of the Computer Science Accreditation Board (2011-2013).  Gates leads the Computing Alliance for Hispanic-Serving Institutions (CAHSI) and is a founding member of the National Center for Women in Information Technology (NCWIT). She received the 2015 A. Nico Habermann Award, the 2010 Anita Borg Institute Social Impact Award, the 2009 Richard A. Tapia Achievement Award for Scientific Scholarship, Civic Science, and Diversifying Computing and was named to Hispanic Business magazine’s 100 Influential Hispanics in 2006 for her work on the Affinity Research Group model.  For further details, please view my complete CV.  Research Expertise Gates directs the NSF-funded Cyber-ShARE Center of Excellence ("Cyberinfrastructure for Sharing resources to Advance Research and Education"). Cyber-ShARE's mission is to advance education and research through cyberinfrastructures that support information exchange and integration, as well as collaborative interdisciplinary research. As national leaders in the study of collaborative science and engineering, the Center has developed and applied models of team-based, cooperative learning, interdisciplinary teamwork, and knowledge integration and management. She also conducts research in software engineering. Her research focuses on development of technology for monitoring software correctness and data quality that can be transferred to both public and private industry. Specifically, the focus is on extending and defining software engineering methods and developing usable technology to support development of complex systems that are of high consequence, i.e., failure of the system will result in loss of life, equipment, security, or financial losses. Using properties to monitor systems can assist in detecting conflicts and errors during software execution or data acquisition.  Education Expertise: Gates has led the development of the Affinity Research Group (ARG) model for structuring research groups that involve undergraduate and graduate students. The goal of the model is to provide an environment that supports persistence and participation of students from traditionally underrepresented groups. The ARG experience advances the scholarship of discovery and, as a byproduct, instills in many students the desire to continue their education. The benefits of ARG are that students learn the skills and strategies that will make them effective leaders and successful in research, academia, and industry, and they gain experience with making informed decisions about technical matters and working in teams to solve complex problems. With rapid, continual changes in technology and the omnipresence of computers in our daily interactions, it is critical that undergraduate students attain appreciation for life-long learning and a higher level of competence in technical areas. The university and departmental goals of providing innovative student programs, educating people in the region who have limited economic and educational opportunities, and preparing students to become professionals and leaders are met through development, refinement, and application of the ARG model.  In addition, Gates leads the Computing Alliance of Hispanic-Serving Institutions (CAHSI) that focuses on the recruitment, retention and advancement of Hispanics in computing through shared effective practices.  Courses: Dr. Gates teaches the capstone courses: CS4310 and CS4311.  Projects Computing Alliance of Hispanic-Serving Instituions Affinity Research Group Cyber-ShARE Center I3 Tag Cloud advance arg cahsi chair collaborative complex computing cyber-share cyberinfrastructure development education engineering experience expertise founding goal group hispanics industry information institutions interdisciplinary leaders learning research resources scholarship science sharing software students support systems technology
gates
About Me I am an Assistant Professor of the department of Computer Science at the University of Texas at El Paso. I have put on a few mascots over the last few years: Trojan (Virginia State University), Hokie (Virginia Tech), and Bobcat (Montana State University). I am now excited to be a Miner (UTEP).  I received my PhD from the Department of CS, Virginia Tech in Summer 2012. My research interests lie in the following areas: data mining and machine learning with a focus on big data, artificial intelligence, text analytics, transfer learning, computational biology, visual analytics, and distributed and parallel computing.  All through my research, I emphasize on giving more control to the user during the knowledge discovery phase. Along with development of theoretical algorithmic frameworks, I am interested in building prototypes to solve data mining problems in different disciplines. My research in big data analytics and algorithmics spans application areas in biomedical science, biology, intelligence analysis, social network analysis, sustainability, software engineering, and mechanical engineering.
hossain
Christopher Kiekintveld's Homepage HOME RESEARCH PROJECTS PUBLICATIONS TEACHING CURRICULUM VITAE DOWNLOADS LINKS Chris Kiekintveld Research Interests: artificial intelligence, multi-agent systems, computational game theory, adversarial reasoning, risk analysis, machine learning, trading agents, supply chain management, security, distributed optimization, mechanism design, behavioral game theory, team and coalition formation I am an associate professor in computer science at the University of Texas at El Paso. My research work in the area of artificial intelligence is driven by fundamental questions about how we can use computational analysis techniques to make good decisions in highly complex environments. I am especially interested in situations with multiple decision-makers, which raises questions about how to predict and react to the behavior of other intelligent agents (including humans) in both cooperative and adversarial settings. In artificial intelligence, this class of problems is often referred to as multi-agent systems. Some examples of multi-agent systems include teams of rescue workers, soldiers, or robots coordinating to achieve a mission, trading agents participating in auctions of financial markets, and security forces trying to prevent attacks on critical infrastructure or computer networks.  My basic research centers around developing novel techniques for strategic reasoning in multi-agent domains, including new algorithms, models, and computing methodologies that exploit the availability of computational resources to scale to ever larger and more complex domains than existing methods. This work contributes to computational game theory, adversarial reasoning, distributed optimization, agent-based simulation, and other related areas. The unifying theme across these areas is predicting how other intelligent agents will act, based on knowledge of their capabilities, goals, historical patterns of behavior, and other factors. One goal of my work is to develop computationally scalable methods for systems with hundreds or thousands of agents and massive strategy spaces. I am also very interested in developing techniques for improving the robustness of solutions to various types of uncertainty, including model uncertainty and bounded rationality.  Working on real-world applications is an important element of my research approach, and often provides great inspiration to address fundamental challenges. I have interests in a variety of application areas, including electronic commerce, infrastructure security, transportation, and energy. Recently I have worked extensively on applications of game theory to infrastructure protection, including a decision support system called IRIS that is currently deployed by the Federal Air Marshals Service (FAMS) and a second system that is in testing for nationwide deployment by the Transportation Security Administration. I have several new projects underway in this area, including work on border security applications. Another area that I have been heavily involved in is automated trading agents for e-Commerce applications. I participated in the Trading Agent Competition, and was a lead developer for the Deep Maize agent, which won the tournament in 2008 and has consistently been among the top few performers in every tournament to date.  Prior to joining UTEP I was a postdoctoral reseach associate at the University of Southern California, where I worked with Milind Tambe and the Teamcore research group. I received my Ph.D. from the University of Michigan, where I was advised by Michael Wellman. During my time at Michigan I was active as a fellow of the STIET program, which provides interdisciplinary training and brings together researchers from diverse disciplines with shared interests in incentive-centered design.  Contact Information UAI tutorial An invited tutorial given by Milind Tambe and Chris Kiekintveld at UAI 2011: Game Theory for Security: Lessons learned from deployed applications Uncertainty in Security Games A talk given at the International Workshop on Safety, Security, and Efficiency for Critical Infrastructures: An Overview of Recent Progress on Uncertainty in Security Games ©2018 Christopher Kiekintveld
kiekintveld
Vladik Kreinovich Professor of Computer Science University of Texas at El Paso, El Paso, Texas, USA M.S. in Mathematics, B.S. in Computer Science (1974) St. Petersburg (Leningrad) University, St. Petersburg, Russia Ph.D. in Mathematics (1979) Institute of Mathematics, Soviet Academy of Sciences, Novosibirsk, Russia Honors, Awards, and Professional Service Areas of Interest, Summary of Research, Links to Latest Papers and Presentations Selected Publications Detailed Curriculum Vitae (research experience, complete publications list, grants, thesis supervision, etc.)  Teaching Appointments Message to students: what information I need to write a recommendation letter for you Contact Information Family and friends: photos Honors, Awards, and Professional Service Member, Editorial Board, International Journal of Reliable Computing, "International Journal of Approximate Reasoning", "International Journal of General Systems", "Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics", "Journal of Intelligent and Fuzzy Systems", "Journal of Applied Statistics and Intelligent Technology", and "Soft Computing" Co-editor, several special issues of the International Journal of Interval Computations Member, Program Committees of Conferences in Interval Computations (SCAN'2014, SCAN'2012, SCAN'2010, SCAN'2008, SCAN'2006, SCAN'2004, SCAN 2002, Validated Computing 2002, SCAN 2000, INTERVAL'98, International Workshop on Applications of Interval Computations, El Paso, TX, 1995, International Conference on Numerical Analysis with Automatic Results Verification, Lafayette, LA, 1993, etc.) and Fuzzy Logic and Intelligent Control (IFSA'2015, FUZZ-IEEE'2015, NAFIPS'2015, FUZZ-IEEE'2014, NAFIPS'2014, IFSA'2013, FUZZ-IEEE'2012, NAFIPS'2012, FUZZ-IEEE'2011, IFSA'11, NAFIPS'11, FUZZ-IEEE'10, IPMU'10, NAFIPS'10, IFSA'09, NAFIPS'09, IPMU'2008, FUZZ-IEEE'08, NAFIPS'08, IFSA'2007, NAFIPS'07, FUZZ-IEEE'2006, FUZZ-IEEE'2005, FUZZ-IEEE'2003, FUZZ-IEEE'01, FUZZ-IEEE'00, NAFIPS'00, NAFIPS'99, NAFIPS'98, FUZZ-IEEE'97, NAFIPS'96, NAFIPS/IFIS/NASA'94, FT&T'94, etc.).  El Paso representative of Berkeley Initiative in Soft Computing (BISC).  2015-16, Vice President for Publications, IEEE Systems, Man, and Cybernetics Society 2012-14, President, North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society (NAFIPS) 2013, Chair, Fuzzy Technical Committee, IEEE Computational Intelligence Society Life Fellow, International Society of Management Engineers (ISME) Foreign Member, Russian Academy of Metrological Sciences Senior Member, Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) 2015 Society for Design and Process Science (SDPS) Fay and Lotfi A. Zadeh Award for Major Contributions to the Theory and Applications of Fuzzy Systems and Related Fields Outstanding Paper Award, Joint Annual Conference of the North American Fuzzy Information processing Society NAFIPS'2015 and 5th World Conference on Soft Computing, Redmond, Washington, August 17-19, 2015.  Best 2014 Individual Paper, International Journal of General Systems.  Excellent Paper Award, 11th International Symposium on Management Engineering ISME'2014, Kitakyushu, Japan, July 27-30, 2014.  Best Student Interval Paper Award, Joint World Congress of the International Fuzzy Systems Association and an Annual Conference of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society IFSA/NAFIPS'2013, Edmonton, Canada, June 24-28, 2013.  Best Paper Award, 2012 International Conference of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society NAFIPS'2012, Berkeley, California, August 6-8, 2012.  Best Paper Award, 2011 International Conference of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society NAFIPS'2011, El Paso, Texas, March 18-20, 2011.  Meritorious Paper Award, 2010 International Conference of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society NAFIPS'2010, Toronto, Canada, July 12-15, 2010.  Best Paper Award, 1st Latin-American Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning LA-NMR'2004, Mexico City, Mexico, April 26, 2004.  Personal Interface AccessGrid, Award from the Education, Outreach and Training Partnership for Advanced Computational Infrastructure EOT-PACI, 2003.  University of Texas at El Paso: College of Science, Best Thesis Award to L. Octavio Lerma, a student of V. Kreinovich, 2014 El Paso Energy Foundation Faculty Achievement Award for Research, 2003 Best Dissertation Award to Raul A. Trejo, a student of V. Kreinovich, 2002 College of Engineering, Top Performer in Teaching and Research Categories, 2001 College of Engineering, Top Performer in the Teaching Category, 1999 College of Engineering, Award for Excellence for Student Services, 1992 Areas of Interest Interval computations, intelligent control (including fuzzy and neural approaches), reasoning under uncertainty More than 1,100 publications Summary of Research In interval computations, I am looking for general (feasible) methods to estimate the accuracy of the results of data processing algorithms. I am also interested in the mathematical foundations of intelligent control, with the goal of finding the optimal way to transform expert operator's knowledge into the actual control strategy.  Links to Latest Papers Published and submitted papers are available as Departmental Technical Reports Links to Latest Presentations Presentations at professional meetings are available at this webpage Presentations at professional meetings by supervised students are available at this webpage Selected Publications V. Kreinovich, "Solving equations (and systems of equations) under uncertainty: how different practical problems lead to different mathematical and computational formulations", Granular Computing, 2016, Vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 171-179.  V. Kreinovich and S. Shary, "Interval methods for data fitting under uncertainty: a probabilistic treatment", Reliable Computing, 2016, Vol. 23, pp. 105-141.  C. Servin and V. Kreinovich, Propagation of Interval and Probabilistic Uncertainty in Cyberinfrastructure-Related Data Processing and Data Fusion, Springer Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2015.  V.-N. Huynh, V. Kreinovich, S. Sriboonchitta, and K. Suriya (eds.), Econometrics of Risk, Springer Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2015.  L. Thompson, A. Velasco, V.Kreinovich, "Construction of ShearWave models by applying multi-objective optimization to multiple geophysical data sets", In: G. O. Tost and O. Vasilieva (eds.), Analysis, Modelling, Optimization, and Numerical Techniques, Springer Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2015, pp. 309-326.  A. Jalal-Kamali, M. S. Hossain, and V. Kreinovich, "How to Understand Connections Based on Big Data: From Cliques to Flexible Granules", In: S.-M. Chen et al. (eds.), Information Granularity, Big Data, and Computational Intelligence, Springer, Cham, 2015, pp. 63-87.  V. Kreinovich, "Interval computations and interval-related statistical techniques", In: F. Pavese et al. (eds.), Advanced Mathematical and Computational Tools in Metrology and Testing, World Scientific, Singapore, 2015, pp. 38-49.  V. Kreinovich, "Decision Making under Interval Uncertainty (and beyond)", In: P. Guo and W. Pedrycz (eds.), Human-Centric Decision-Making Models for Social Sciences, Springer Verlag, 2014, pp. 163-193.  M. Beer, S. Ferson, and V. Kreinovich, "Imprecise probabilities in engineering analyses", Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 2013, Vol. 37, pp. 4-29.  M. Stein, M. Beer, and V. Kreinovich, "Bayesian Approach for Inconsistent Information", Information Sciences, 2013, Vol. 245, No. 1, pp. 96-111.
kreinovich
LUC LONGPRÉ Associate Professor, Computer Science Director, Computer Science Undergraduate Program Director, Center for Information Assurance Professor Longpré earned his Ph.D. in Computer Science at Cornell in 1986. Before coming to UTEP he taught at Northeastern University and the University of Washington, and he has also taught classes as a visitor at the University of Montreal.  His research includes the recasting the study of information theory in a resource bounded framework, and in general, any application of information theory to computer science. He is also trying to link the existence of secure cryptographic systems to structural complexity. Modeling and guaranteeing privacy is another area of interest.  He has long served as an organizer of the IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity, and he is the Director of UTEP's Center for Information Assurance.  KEYWORDS computer security, Information theory applications, National Defense & Border Security
longpre
DAVID NOVICK My featured awards My patents Professor, Engineering Education and Leadership - Computer Science - Computational Science Director, Mike Loya Center For Innovation and Commerce David Novick's research focuses on interactive systems and, especially, building rapport in multimodal conversation. Current research projects include (1) making conversations with intelligent virtual agents more effective through modeling and implementing conversation control acts and (2) integrating entrepreneurship into engineering education.  Dr. Novick's research on multimodal conversation explores computational pragmatics, especially nonverbal behaviors associated with conversation. Dr. Novick and his students have developed intelligent virtual agents that converse with humans in highly engaging games or simulations, which provide a way to study what affects the development of rapport between humans and agents.  KEYWORDS Artificial intelligence Human-Computer Interaction Innovation and entrepreneurship Intelligent virtual agents User experience
novick
Dr. Salamah is an Associate Professor and Chair of the Computer Science Department at UTEP. Prior to joining UTEP in 2013, he spent five and a half years as an assistant and later associate professor in Computer Science and Software Engineering at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Florida. At UTEP, Dr. Salamah directs the Masters of Science in Software Engineering. He's also the director of the DHS/NSF CyberCoprs Scholarship for Service Program, the NSF Scholarship for STEM program, and the Cybersecurity through Workshops, Analysis, and Research (CyWAR) lab. Dr. Salamah's teaching and research interests include formal software quality assurance, secure software development, and computer science and software engineering education. Over his career, Dr. Salamah has secured over $10 million in external funding from NSF, U.S. Department of Education, the Army Research Lab, NASA, the Software Engineering Institute (SEI), Honeywell Corporation, and Lockheed Martin.
salamah
My work aims to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the discovery, integration, and trust of scientific data and models. My approaches link human and machine knowledge to address societally-relevant problems in areas that require interdisciplinary research and international collaborations such as sustainability of water resources and Smart Cities. I am passionate about encouraging and supporting women and Hispanics pursuing a career or education in Science and Engineering. In 2011, I obtained a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carleton University (Canada) with the thesis "Formalizing Relational Databases as OWL Ontologies". I also hold a M.Sc. in Artificial Intelligence from the University of Edinburgh (UK) with the thesis "Learning Heuristic Const Functions for Planning using Genetic Programming". I have Bachelors degree in Computer Science from the "Universidad Panamericana Campus Aguascalientes" and a double-major in Statistics from the Center for Mathematics Research (Mexico). My basic research aims to formalize semantic-based, data-integration models that enable the automated reasoning about different perspectives of scientific resources to facilitate their reuse and repurpose in different contexts (e.g., discipline, country). My applied research focuses on creating data-driven cyberinfrastructure that enables the description and trust in resources in collaborative teams resulting in verified cyber-enhanced tools working in global challenges such as converting cities to Smart Cities. The impact of my work can be clearly appreciated when it is applied to interdisciplinary or international research, where a key challenge is the integration of data and reusability of models initially created for a different purpose. My vision is a world where every person has immediate access to information, including scientific research, to improve their quality of life.
villanueva
Nigel G. Ward, Professor of Computer Science, received his Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley in 1991. On the faculty of the University of Tokyo for ten years before joining UTEP in 2002, in 2015-2016 he was a Fulbright Scholar and Visiting Professor at Kyoto University. In 2019 he is co-organizing special sessions on Modeling Meaning-Bearing Configurations of Prosodic Features at ICPhS and Expressing Stance in Spoken Language at IPrA. He is the author of Prosodic Patters in English Conversation.more background vita Ward's research areas are at the intersection of spoken language and human-computer interaction. Current topics include identifying the subtle non-lexical and prosodic signals that enable inference of a dialog partner's needs, intentions, and feelings at the sub-second level; modeling these phenomena; and using these models to improve dialog system responsiveness, information retrieval from audio, and language assessment and teaching. These projects apply multiple methods: linguistic, corpus-based model building, systems building, and experimental.  Contact nigelward@acm.org +1 (915) 747-6827 3.0408 CCSB, 1825 Hawthorne Research Publications Projects Courses Speech and Lang. Proc., 5319/4390 Human-Computer Interaction, 5317 Programming Languages, 3360 Voice User Interfaces, 5390 other Resources Mid-Level Prosodic Feature Code Acceptance Estimator for CS Graduate Admissions Backchannel Facts Dialog Technology Bibliography Event Links other Advisees Anindita Nath, Gerardo Cervantes, Alonso Granados, James Jodoin; ISG Alumni; Sanpo Alumni Laboratory group portrait
ward
Deepak K. Tosh, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science University of Texas at El Paso 500 W. University Avenue El Paso, TX 79968-0518 Biography I am an assistant professor in Computer Science at the University of Texas at El Paso. Before that I was a Cybersecurity Researcher at the DoD Sponsored Center of Excellence in Cybersecurity, Norfolk State University (NSU), Norfolk, Virginia. During that time, I have closely collaborated with researchers from Air Force Research Lab and Army Research Lab to establish data provenance mechanisms in cloud computing in addition to addressing research challenges in the arena of distributed system security, Blockchain, cyber-threat information sharing, cyber-insurance, and Internet of Battlefield Things (IoBT). I was appointed shortly as a postdoctoral researcher at the Tennessee State Univerity, where I worked with Dr. Sachin Shetty in the CyberViz Laboratory. I have been collaborating with him since then focussing on research topics such as: distributed consensus models in Blockchain technology, cyber-resiliency in battlefield environment, and various practical issues in cloud computing security. I have received my Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering from University of Nevada, Reno, under the supervision of Dr. Shamik Sengupta. My dissertation was focussed on designing market based models to enable cybersecurity information sharing among organizations. I received my masters in Computer Science from University of Hyderabad, India in 2012. My master thesis addressed the issue of cognitive radio transmission parameter adaptation problem using multi-objective optimization techniques. Research Interests Cybersecurity: Security and privacy in cybersecurity information exchange (CYBEX), Distributed system security, Blockchain, Data provenance, Internet of Things (IoT) security, CYBEX Incentivization Models, Cyber-Insurance, Risk assessment, Network security Inter-disciplinary Research: Game theory, Mechanism design, Cooperative games, Evolutionary and swarm-intelligence based optimization, Multi-agent learning Organizational Duties and Activities TPC member for IEEE ISC2-BLESS Workshop and 5G-SP Workshop Reviewer for IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics & Security, 2017, 2018 Reviewer for IEEE Transactions on Services Computing (TSC), Elsevier Journal of Computer Communication, 2018
tosh
Daniel DeBlasio Assistant Professor My research interest are broadly in algorithm design and analysis, and I take inspiration from biological problems. Many times this not only leads to an interesting algorithmic result, but a useful biological tool (see Software). I am currently an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department at the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP). More information on my research group can be found at deblasiolab.org. Previously I was a Lane Fellow in the Computational Biology Department at Carnegie Mellon University working with Carl Kingsford. I was previously a PhD student in the Computer Science Department at the University of Arizona working with John Kececioglu and a student in the CS Department Department at the University of Central Florida working with Shaojie Zhang. In the past my work has focused mainly on multiple sequence alignment problems. Most recently I worked on improving accuracy of protein multiple sequence alignments. Multiple sequence alignment is a fundamental step in bioinformatics, but the problem is NP-complete. Because of the importance of the result and complexity of the multiple sequence alignment problem many algorithms exist to find high quality alignments in practice. Each of these algorithms has a large number of tunable parameters that can greatly affect the quality of the computed alignment. Most users rely on the default parameter choices, which produce the best alignments on average, but produce poor alignments for some inputs. We developed a process called parameter advising which selects parameter choices that produces a high quality alignment for the input. To accomplish this candidate alignments are produced using each of the parameter choices in an advising set, the accuracy of these candidate alignments is then estimated using an advising estimator, the candidate alignment with the highest estimated accuracy is then selected for the user. To estimate the alignment accuracy we developed Facet (Feature-based accuracy estimator) which is a linear combination of efficiently-computable feature functions. We have found that learning an optimal advisor (selecting both the estimator coefficients and the set of parameter choices) is NP-complete. We expanded this result to show that finding the estimator coefficients or the estimator set independently is also NP-complete. In practice, we have methods to find close-to optimal advisors. We are working on ways to improve the accuracy of these parameter advisors. I have also worked on improving the memory consumption of secondary structure conscious RNA multiple sequence alignment (see PMFastR) and high throughput phylogeny filtering (see SiClE).
deblasio
information security
acosta
software engineering, requirements engineering
tai
Improving Weight Initialization of RELU and Output Layers 28th International Conference on Artificial Neural Networks (ICANN 2019) (2019), Diego Aguirre, Olac Fuentes. Turn-Taking Predictions across Languages and Genres Using an LSTM Recurrent Neural Network (2018), Nigel Ward, Diego Aguirre, Gerardo Cervantes, Olac Fuentes. Tracking Multiple Near-Identical Objects Proceedings of 2015 CAHSI Summit (2015), Diego Aguirre, Olac Fuentes. My research interests lie in the areas of deep learning, computer vision, and reinforcement learning. I have had the opportunity to collaborate alongside companies like Lockheed Martin, NASA, IBM, Leidos, and Google. I currently teach multiple courses at UTEP and actively participate in the university’s Vision and Learning Lab. My hobbies include mountain biking and hiking.
aguirre